In recent decades, facial recognition has become the object of research worldwide. In addition, with the advancement of technology and the rapid development of artificial intelligence, very significant advances have been made. For this reason, public and private companies use facial recognition systems to identify and control the access of people in airports, schools, offices, and other places. On the other hand, with the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, government entities have established several biosafety regulations to limit infections. Among them is the mandatory use of face masks in public places, as they have been shown to be effective in protecting users and those around them.

As the spread of the virus occurs through physical contact, conventional recognition systems (such as fingerprints) or typing a password on a keyboard become insecure. Thus, facial recognition systems are the best option, as they do not require physical interaction as in other cases. However, the use of the face mask within these systems has represented a great challenge for artificial vision, because at the time of facial recognition, half of the face is covered and several essential data are lost. This clearly denotes the need to create algorithms that recognize a person when they are wearing a face mask. This has made it necessary to implement new strategies to achieve robustness in the current systems.

The problem of facial recognition due to the use of face masks during the COVID-19 pandemic has caused new horizons to be explored in artificial intelligence, representing a challenge for researchers, which has motivated the development of ocular recognition systems, as a parallel response. In, a facial recognition system using eye information and CNN trained by ImageNet is presented. The results present an accuracy of between 90–95%. Similarly, provides a facial recognition system using SVM with three databases. Performance tests show a yield of approximately 92%.

Problem Definition:
We have given the data set now using that data set we need to build a system for recognizing mask detection. We have used existing data and the result of their analysis were 31 to 81 percentage correct. We used sequential model to train our neural network
